Bibliography
National Prisoner Statistics, 1978-2015

This bibliography includes published and unpublished works that are related 
to ICPSR study 36657. It includes works that are based on primary
or secondary analysis of the data, or which describe or critique those
data or the collection methodology. 

If you publish a work or know of other works that are based on these data,
please send the complete citation and name of the ICPSR study used to:
icpsr-biblio-notify@umich.edu 


1. Austin, James; Coventry, Garry, "A critical analysis of justice
reinvestment in the United States and Australia." Victims and Offenders.
2014, 9, (1), 126 - 148. DOI: 10.1080/15564886.2014.861687

2. Aylward, Alexandra, "Spillover Effects of Mass Incarceration in the US:
A Mechanism for Educational Inequality." Dissertation, New York University,
2018.

3. Bachman, Ronet; Paternoster, Raymond, "A contemporary look at the
effects of rape law reform: How far have we really come?." Journal of
Criminal Law and Criminology. Aut 1993, 84, (3), 554 - 574. DOI:
10.2307/1143963 NCJ 150006
Abstract: https://www.ncjrs.gov/app/publications/abstract.aspx?id=150006

4. Binswanger, Ingrid A.; Carson, Elizabeth A.; Krueger, Patrick; Mueller,
Shane; Sabol, William J., "Smoking-attributable mortality among state
prisoners in the United States: 2001-2009." Presented at the 36th Annual
Meeting of the Society of General Internal Medicine, Society of General
Internal Medicine, Denver, CO, 2013. DOI: 10.1007/s11606-013-2436-y
Abstract: https://www.ncjrs.gov/app/publications/abstract.aspx?id=150006

5. Bose, Srimoyee, "Demographic and spatial disparity in HIV prevalence
among incarcerated population in the US: A state-level analysis."
International Journal of STD and AIDS. Mar 2018, 29, (3), 278 - 286. DOI:
10.1177/0956462417724586
Abstract: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28776462

6. Bronson, Jennifer; Stroop, Jessica; Zimmer, Stephanie; Berzofsky,
Marcus, "Drug Use, Dependence, and Abuse Among State Prisoners and Jail
Inmates, 2007-2009." Special Report. NCJ 250546, Washington, DC: Bureau of
Justice Statistics, Jun 2017.
Abstract: https://www.ncjrs.gov/app/publications/abstract.aspx?id=272712
Full text: https://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/ascii/dudaspji0709.txt
Full text PDF: https://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/pdf/dudaspji0709.pdf
Fifty-eight percent of State prisoners and 63 percent of sentenced jail
inmates met the criteria for drug dependence or abuse during 2007-09, as
defined by the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders,
Fourth Edition (DSM-IV). In comparison, approximately 5 percent of the
total general population age 18 or older met the DSM-IV criteria for drug
dependence or abuse during this period. Overall, both State inmates (63
percent) and jail inmates (64 percent) regularly used marijuana/hashish
more than any other drugs prior to incarceration. This was followed by
cocaine/crack (24 percent of State inmates and 38 percent of jail inmates).
Fewer State inmates (42 percent) and Jail inmates (37 percent) reported
using drugs at the time of their offense. Sixty-nine percent of female
State inmates and 72 percent of jail inmates met the DSM-IV criteria for
drug dependence or abuse, compared to 57 percent of males in State prison
and 62 percent of jail inmates. Drug dependence for State inmates and jail
inmates is also reported by inmate age and race/ethnicity (Hispanics and
non-Hispanic White or Black inmates). Twenty-eight percent of State inmates
and 22 percent of sentenced jail inmates who met the criteria for drug
dependence or abuse participated in a drug treatment program since
admission to their current facility. 1 table

7. Bureau of Justice Statistics, "Prisoners in State and Federal
Institutions on December 31, 1981." National Prisoner Statistics Bulletin.
NCJ 086485, Washington, DC: Bureau of Justice Statistics, Mar 1983.
Abstract: https://www.ncjrs.gov/app/publications/abstract.aspx?id=86485
Full text PDF: http://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/Digitization/86485NCJRS.pdf
It assesses the sharp growth in prison population during 1981, when the
number of prisoners increased by some 38,000, resulting in a record yearend
total of almost 369,000 inmates, 12 percent higher than at yearend 1980.
For the first time, each of the jurisdictions covered in the report (the 50
States, the District of Columbia, and the Federal Bureau of Prisons)
reported increases over the previous year. The report surveys developments
in the correctional and legislative areas that could lead to even greater
growth. As in past reports, it also examines changes in the geographic
distribution of prisoners; composition of the inmate population by race,
sex, and Hispanic origin; incarceration rates for minorities; and the rates
of various types of admissions and releases. Data for the report were
collected and analyzed by the U.S. Bureau of the Census for the Bureau of
Justice Statistics.

8. Bureau of Justice Statistics, "Prisoners in State and Federal
Institutions on December 31, 1982." National Prisoner Statistics Bulletin.
NCJ 093311, Washington, DC: Bureau of Justice Statistics, Aug 1984.
Abstract: https://www.ncjrs.gov/app/publications/abstract.aspx?id=93311
Full text PDF: https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/Digitization/93311NCJRS.pdf
It also examines changes in the geographic distribution of prisoners;
composition of the inmate population by race, sex, and Hispanic origin;
incarceration rates for minorities; and the rates of various types of
admissions and releases. The data include all prisoners subject to
confinement whether or not they were in physical custody. Highlights
include data on increases in short-sentence inmates due to changing laws,
geographic variations in the use of conditional release, the shift toward
supervised mandatory release, and the large increase in the number of
mandatory releases. Maps, tables, and figures are included. Appendixes
present extensive data tables, a description of the data collection method,
State-by-State explanations, and historical data.

9. Cantwell, M., "Prisoners in State and Federal Institutions on December
31, 1978." A National Prisoner Statistics Report. NCJ 064671, Washington,
DC: Bureau of Justice Statistics, May 1980.
Abstract: https://www.ncjrs.gov/app/publications/abstract.aspx?id=64671
Full text PDF: http://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/Digitization/64671NCJRS.pdf
For the second consecutive year, the growth of overall prison population
was half that of the preceding year and sharply lower than the record
increases of 1975 and 1976. Or the states as a whole, the number of
prisoners increased by 3 percent in 1978, compared with 5 percent in 1977,
while the federal system experienced a 7-percent decline. The slowdown in
inmate population growth after the mid-1970's is attributable to a variety
of factors, notably the early release of prisoners from overcrowded
facilities and diversion of less serious offenders into programs not
involving incarceration. The aging of that segment of the population making
up the post-World War II baby-boom generation also made an impact. In the
coming decade, these constraints on growth could be offset to a greater of
lesser extent by prison construction programs underway in many
jurisdictions and by the potential inherent in determinate sentencing laws
for lengthening the average time served. The diversity of factors at work
both within and outside the criminal justice arena precludes, however, an
accurate prediction of future trends in the size of the nation's prison
population. This report, one in the series published under the National
Prisoner Statistics program, was prepared for the Bureau of Justice
Statistics by the U.S. Bureau of the Census. Figures and tables illustrate
the text. The appendixes contain data tables, a description of the data
collection method and a copy of the questionnaire, a technical note on
custody versus jurisdiction, and explanatory notes. (Author abstract
modified--MRS)

10. Carroll, Leo; Cornell, Claire P., "Racial composition, sentencing
reforms, and rates of incarceration, 1970-1980." Justice Quarterly. 1985,
2, (4), 473 - 490. DOI: 10.1080/07418828500088691
Abstract: https://www.ncjrs.gov/app/publications/abstract.aspx?id=64671
Full text PDF: http://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/Digitization/64671NCJRS.pdf
For the second consecutive year, the growth of overall prison population
was half that of the preceding year and sharply lower than the record
increases of 1975 and 1976. Or the states as a whole, the number of
prisoners increased by 3 percent in 1978, compared with 5 percent in 1977,
while the federal system experienced a 7-percent decline. The slowdown in
inmate population growth after the mid-1970's is attributable to a variety
of factors, notably the early release of prisoners from overcrowded
facilities and diversion of less serious offenders into programs not
involving incarceration. The aging of that segment of the population making
up the post-World War II baby-boom generation also made an impact. In the
coming decade, these constraints on growth could be offset to a greater of
lesser extent by prison construction programs underway in many
jurisdictions and by the potential inherent in determinate sentencing laws
for lengthening the average time served. The diversity of factors at work
both within and outside the criminal justice arena precludes, however, an
accurate prediction of future trends in the size of the nation's prison
population. This report, one in the series published under the National
Prisoner Statistics program, was prepared for the Bureau of Justice
Statistics by the U.S. Bureau of the Census. Figures and tables illustrate
the text. The appendixes contain data tables, a description of the data
collection method and a copy of the questionnaire, a technical note on
custody versus jurisdiction, and explanatory notes. (Author abstract
modified--MRS)

11. Carson, E. Ann; Anderson, Elizabeth, "Prisoners in 2015." Bulletin. NCJ
250229, Washington, DC: United States Department of Justice, Office of
Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Statistics, Dec 2016.
Full text PDF: https://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/pdf/p15.pdf?utm_source=juststats-122916&utm_campaign=juststats&utm_medium=email&utm_content=P15_ButtonB&ed2f26df2d9c416fbddddd2330a778c6=avjkrrovjy-avrjorlkt
This report presents final counts of prisoners under the jurisdiction of
state and federal correctional authorities at yearend 2015, including
admissions, releases, noncitizen inmates, and inmates age 17 or younger.

12. Carson, E.A., "Prisoners in 2016." NCJ 251149, Washington, DC: Bureau
of Justice Statistics, Jan 2018.
Abstract: https://www.ncjrs.gov/app/publications/abstract.aspx?id=273329
Full text PDF: https://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/pdf/p16.pdf
Presents final counts of prisoners under the jurisdiction of state and
federal correctional authorities at year-end 2016, including admissions,
releases, noncitizen inmates, and inmates age 17 or younger. The report
describes prisoner populations by jurisdiction, most serious offense, and
demographic characteristics. Selected findings on prison capacity and
prisoners held in private prisons, local jails, the U.S. military, and U.S.
territories are also included. Findings are based on data from BJS's
National Prisoner Statistics program, which collects data from state
departments of correction and the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Highlights
include: the number of prisoners under state and federal jurisdiction at
year-end 2016 (1,505,400) decreased by 21,200 (down more than 1%) from
year-end 2015; the federal prison population decreased by 7,300 prisoners
from 2015 to 2016 (down almost 4%), accounting for 34% of the total change
in the U.S. prison population; State and Federal prisons had jurisdiction
over 1,458,200 persons sentenced to more than 1 year at year-end 2016; the
number of females sentenced to more than 1 year in state or federal prison
increased by 500 from 2015 to 2016; and the imprisonment rate in the United
States decreased 2%, from 459 prisoners per 100,000 U.S. residents of all
ages in 2015 to 450 per 100,000 in 2016.

13. Clear, Todd R.; Reisig, Michael D.; Cole, George F., "The corrections
system." In Clear, Todd R.; Reisig, Michael D.; Petrosino, Carolyn; Cole,
George F., American Corrections. 4 - 29, Boston, MA: Cengage,2018.
Abstract: https://www.ncjrs.gov/app/publications/abstract.aspx?id=273329
Full text PDF: https://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/pdf/p16.pdf
Presents final counts of prisoners under the jurisdiction of state and
federal correctional authorities at year-end 2016, including admissions,
releases, noncitizen inmates, and inmates age 17 or younger. The report
describes prisoner populations by jurisdiction, most serious offense, and
demographic characteristics. Selected findings on prison capacity and
prisoners held in private prisons, local jails, the U.S. military, and U.S.
territories are also included. Findings are based on data from BJS's
National Prisoner Statistics program, which collects data from state
departments of correction and the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Highlights
include: the number of prisoners under state and federal jurisdiction at
year-end 2016 (1,505,400) decreased by 21,200 (down more than 1%) from
year-end 2015; the federal prison population decreased by 7,300 prisoners
from 2015 to 2016 (down almost 4%), accounting for 34% of the total change
in the U.S. prison population; State and Federal prisons had jurisdiction
over 1,458,200 persons sentenced to more than 1 year at year-end 2016; the
number of females sentenced to more than 1 year in state or federal prison
increased by 500 from 2015 to 2016; and the imprisonment rate in the United
States decreased 2%, from 459 prisoners per 100,000 U.S. residents of all
ages in 2015 to 450 per 100,000 in 2016.

14. Davis, Elizabeth; Snell, Tracy L., "Capital Punishment, 2016."
Statistical Brief. NCJ 251430, Washington, DC: Bureau of Justice
Statistics, Apr 2018.
Abstract: https://www.bjs.gov/index.cfm?ty=pbdetail&iid=6246
Full text PDF: https://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/pdf/cp16sb.pdf

15. Frazier, Beverly D.; Sung, Hung-En; Gideon, Lior; Alfaro, Karla S.,
"The impact of prison deinstitutionalization on community treatment
services." Health and Justice. Dec 2015, 3,. DOI: 10.1186/s40352-015-0021-7
Full text: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5151559/

16. Glaze, Lauren E., "Correctional Populations in the United States,
2009." Bulletin. NCJ 231681, Washington, DC: United States Department of
Justice, Bureau of Justice Statistics, Dec 2010.
Full text: http://bjs.ojp.usdoj.gov/content/pub/ascii/cpus09.txt
Full text PDF: http://bjs.ojp.usdoj.gov/content/pub/pdf/cpus09.pdf
Presents summary data on the number of adults under some form of
correctional supervision in the United States at yearend 2009. Correctional
supervision includes adults supervised in the community on probation or
parole and those incarcerated in prison or local jails. The report provides
a comparison between the change in the correctional population observed
since 2000 and the changes observed during the 1980s and 1990s, which
illustrates the slowing of growth in the population during each decade. It
also includes the number of men and women under each correctional status
and trend analysis of men and women under correctional supervision since
1990.

17. Johnson, James L., "The Construction of Mass Incarceration as a Means
of Marginalizing Black Americans." Dissertation, American University, 2008.
Full text: http://bjs.ojp.usdoj.gov/content/pub/ascii/cpus09.txt
Full text PDF: http://bjs.ojp.usdoj.gov/content/pub/pdf/cpus09.pdf
Presents summary data on the number of adults under some form of
correctional supervision in the United States at yearend 2009. Correctional
supervision includes adults supervised in the community on probation or
parole and those incarcerated in prison or local jails. The report provides
a comparison between the change in the correctional population observed
since 2000 and the changes observed during the 1980s and 1990s, which
illustrates the slowing of growth in the population during each decade. It
also includes the number of men and women under each correctional status
and trend analysis of men and women under correctional supervision since
1990.

18. Kaeble, Danielle; Cowhig, Mary, "Correctional Populations in the United
States, 2016." NCJ 251211, Washington, DC: Bureau of Justice Statistics,
Apr 2018.
Abstract: https://www.bjs.gov/index.cfm?ty=pbdetail&iid=6226
Full text PDF: https://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/pdf/cpus16.pdf

19. Karstedt, Susanne; Bergin, Tiffany; Koch, Michael, "Critical junctures
and conditions of change: Exploring the fall of prison populations in US
states." Social and Legal Studies. in press 2018, 1 - 23. DOI:
10.1177/0964663917747342
Abstract: http://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/0964663917747342

20. Kranz, Charity F., "Hepatitis C Screening and Treatment of Prisoners:
Analysis of Policy and Practice in Kentucky." Thesis, University of
Kentucky, 2017.
Abstract: https://uknowledge.uky.edu/cph_etds/173/
Full text PDF: https://uknowledge.uky.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1172&context=cph_etds

21. Light, Michael T.; Marshall, Joey, "On the weak mortality returns of
the prison boom: Comparing infant mortality and homicide in the
incarceration ledger." Journal of Health and Social Behavior. Mar 2018, 59,
(1), 3 - 19. DOI: 10.1177/0022146517748412
Abstract: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29283677

22. Lynch, James P., "Corrections in the United States: Trends in
Correctional Populations, Common Perceptions of Incarceration, and the Role
of Corrections in Society." Washington, DC: Bureau of Justice Statistics,
May 4, 2012..
Full text PDF: https://bjs.gov/content/pub/pdf/cus2012.pdf

23. Maruschak, Laura M.; Bronson, Jennifer, "HIV in Prisons, 2015 -
Statistical Tables." NCJ 250641, Washington, DC: Bureau of Justice
Statistics, Aug 2017.
Abstract: https://www.ncjrs.gov/app/publications/abstract.aspx?id=272809
Full text: https://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/ascii/hivp15st.txt
Full text PDF: https://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/pdf/hivp15st.pdf
Approximately 17,150 State and Federal prisoners were living with HIV
infection at the end of 2015. The rate of HIV among State and Federal
prisoners in 2015 was 1,297 per 100,000 State and Federal prisoners. This
was the lowest rate reported during the 25 years in which such data have
been reported. In the most recent 5-year period, the number of male
prisoners with HIV declined from an estimated 18,510 in 2010 to 15,920 in
2015. During the same period, the number of female prisoners with HIV
declined from 1,780 to 1,220. Female prisoners experienced a larger
percentage decline. The number of AIDS-related deaths among State prisoners
fluctuated from 2010 to 2015 from a low of 45 (preliminary count) in 2015
to a high of 74 in 2012. Over the same period, the annual number of AIDS-
related deaths among Federal prisoners has been less than 10, with one
death reported in 2015. Between 2010 and 2015, in both number and rate,
more male State prisoners than female prisoners and more non-Hispanic Black
State prisoners than non-Hispanic White and Hispanic State prisoners died
from AIDS-related causes. In 2015, 15 jurisdictions reported mandatory
testing of all prisoners for HIV. The website for the full report is
included. Whereas this summary contains 1 figure, the full report contains
1 figure and 17 tables.

24. Maruschak, Laura M.; Glaze, Lauren E.; Mumola, Christopher J.,
"Incarcerated parents and their children: Findings from the Bureau of
Justice Statistics." In Eddy, J.M.; Poehlmann, Julie, Children of
Incarcerated Parents: A Handbook for Researchers and Practitioners. 33 -
51, Washington, DC: Urban Institute Press,2010.
Abstract: https://www.ncjrs.gov/app/publications/abstract.aspx?id=272809
Full text: https://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/ascii/hivp15st.txt
Full text PDF: https://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/pdf/hivp15st.pdf
Approximately 17,150 State and Federal prisoners were living with HIV
infection at the end of 2015. The rate of HIV among State and Federal
prisoners in 2015 was 1,297 per 100,000 State and Federal prisoners. This
was the lowest rate reported during the 25 years in which such data have
been reported. In the most recent 5-year period, the number of male
prisoners with HIV declined from an estimated 18,510 in 2010 to 15,920 in
2015. During the same period, the number of female prisoners with HIV
declined from 1,780 to 1,220. Female prisoners experienced a larger
percentage decline. The number of AIDS-related deaths among State prisoners
fluctuated from 2010 to 2015 from a low of 45 (preliminary count) in 2015
to a high of 74 in 2012. Over the same period, the annual number of AIDS-
related deaths among Federal prisoners has been less than 10, with one
death reported in 2015. Between 2010 and 2015, in both number and rate,
more male State prisoners than female prisoners and more non-Hispanic Black
State prisoners than non-Hispanic White and Hispanic State prisoners died
from AIDS-related causes. In 2015, 15 jurisdictions reported mandatory
testing of all prisoners for HIV. The website for the full report is
included. Whereas this summary contains 1 figure, the full report contains
1 figure and 17 tables.

25. Moore, Nina M., "The politics principle and the party playbook." In The
Political Roots of Racial Tracking in American Criminal Justice. 166 - 218,
New York, NY: Cambridge University Press,2015.
Abstract: https://www.ncjrs.gov/app/publications/abstract.aspx?id=272809
Full text: https://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/ascii/hivp15st.txt
Full text PDF: https://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/pdf/hivp15st.pdf
Approximately 17,150 State and Federal prisoners were living with HIV
infection at the end of 2015. The rate of HIV among State and Federal
prisoners in 2015 was 1,297 per 100,000 State and Federal prisoners. This
was the lowest rate reported during the 25 years in which such data have
been reported. In the most recent 5-year period, the number of male
prisoners with HIV declined from an estimated 18,510 in 2010 to 15,920 in
2015. During the same period, the number of female prisoners with HIV
declined from 1,780 to 1,220. Female prisoners experienced a larger
percentage decline. The number of AIDS-related deaths among State prisoners
fluctuated from 2010 to 2015 from a low of 45 (preliminary count) in 2015
to a high of 74 in 2012. Over the same period, the annual number of AIDS-
related deaths among Federal prisoners has been less than 10, with one
death reported in 2015. Between 2010 and 2015, in both number and rate,
more male State prisoners than female prisoners and more non-Hispanic Black
State prisoners than non-Hispanic White and Hispanic State prisoners died
from AIDS-related causes. In 2015, 15 jurisdictions reported mandatory
testing of all prisoners for HIV. The website for the full report is
included. Whereas this summary contains 1 figure, the full report contains
1 figure and 17 tables.

26. Neill, Katherine A., "The War on Drugs in the American States:
Variations in Sentencing Policies Over Time." Dissertation, Old Dominion
University, 2014.
Abstract: https://www.ncjrs.gov/app/publications/abstract.aspx?id=272809
Full text: https://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/ascii/hivp15st.txt
Full text PDF: https://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/pdf/hivp15st.pdf
Approximately 17,150 State and Federal prisoners were living with HIV
infection at the end of 2015. The rate of HIV among State and Federal
prisoners in 2015 was 1,297 per 100,000 State and Federal prisoners. This
was the lowest rate reported during the 25 years in which such data have
been reported. In the most recent 5-year period, the number of male
prisoners with HIV declined from an estimated 18,510 in 2010 to 15,920 in
2015. During the same period, the number of female prisoners with HIV
declined from 1,780 to 1,220. Female prisoners experienced a larger
percentage decline. The number of AIDS-related deaths among State prisoners
fluctuated from 2010 to 2015 from a low of 45 (preliminary count) in 2015
to a high of 74 in 2012. Over the same period, the annual number of AIDS-
related deaths among Federal prisoners has been less than 10, with one
death reported in 2015. Between 2010 and 2015, in both number and rate,
more male State prisoners than female prisoners and more non-Hispanic Black
State prisoners than non-Hispanic White and Hispanic State prisoners died
from AIDS-related causes. In 2015, 15 jurisdictions reported mandatory
testing of all prisoners for HIV. The website for the full report is
included. Whereas this summary contains 1 figure, the full report contains
1 figure and 17 tables.

27. Nowotny, Kathryn M., "Understanding Health Disparities: The Health and
Healthcare of Incarcerated Adults." Dissertation, University of Colorado,
2016.
Abstract: https://www.ncjrs.gov/app/publications/abstract.aspx?id=272809
Full text: https://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/ascii/hivp15st.txt
Full text PDF: https://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/pdf/hivp15st.pdf
Approximately 17,150 State and Federal prisoners were living with HIV
infection at the end of 2015. The rate of HIV among State and Federal
prisoners in 2015 was 1,297 per 100,000 State and Federal prisoners. This
was the lowest rate reported during the 25 years in which such data have
been reported. In the most recent 5-year period, the number of male
prisoners with HIV declined from an estimated 18,510 in 2010 to 15,920 in
2015. During the same period, the number of female prisoners with HIV
declined from 1,780 to 1,220. Female prisoners experienced a larger
percentage decline. The number of AIDS-related deaths among State prisoners
fluctuated from 2010 to 2015 from a low of 45 (preliminary count) in 2015
to a high of 74 in 2012. Over the same period, the annual number of AIDS-
related deaths among Federal prisoners has been less than 10, with one
death reported in 2015. Between 2010 and 2015, in both number and rate,
more male State prisoners than female prisoners and more non-Hispanic Black
State prisoners than non-Hispanic White and Hispanic State prisoners died
from AIDS-related causes. In 2015, 15 jurisdictions reported mandatory
testing of all prisoners for HIV. The website for the full report is
included. Whereas this summary contains 1 figure, the full report contains
1 figure and 17 tables.

28. Raphael, Steven; Stoll, Michael A., "A New Approach to Reducing
Incarceration While Maintaining Low Rates of Crime." Hamilton Project
Discussion Paper Series. Brookings, May 2014.
Full text PDF: http://www.hamiltonproject.org/assets/legacy/files/downloads_and_links/v5_THP_RaphaelStoll_DiscPaper.pdf

29. Rocque, Michael; Saunoris, James W.; Marshall, Emily C., "Revisiting
the relationship between the economy and crime: The role of the shadow
economy." Justice Quarterly. in press 2018, 1 - 36. DOI:
10.1080/07418825.2018.1424230
Abstract: http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/07418825.2018.1424230

30. Selby, Rebekah J., "Essays on health and development economics."
Dissertation, University of Oregon, 2017.
Abstract: http://hdl.handle.net/1794/22678
Full text PDF: https://scholarsbank.uoregon.edu/xmlui/bitstream/handle/1794/22678/Selby_oregon_0171A_11875.pdf?sequence=1&isAllowed=y

31. Shoyode, Adesina, "An Examination of the Situational Effects of Types
of Prisons on In-Prison Death 2000-2012." Dissertation, Capella University,
2016.
Abstract: http://hdl.handle.net/1794/22678
Full text PDF: https://scholarsbank.uoregon.edu/xmlui/bitstream/handle/1794/22678/Selby_oregon_0171A_11875.pdf?sequence=1&isAllowed=y

32. Snell, Tracy I., "Capital Punishment, 2014-2015." Statistical Tables.
NCJ 250638, Washington, DC: United States Department of Justice, Office of
Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Statistics, May 2017.
Full text PDF: https://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/pdf/cp1415sb.pdf?utm_source=juststats&utm_medium=email&utm_content=cp1415_report_pdf&utm_campaign=cp1415&ed2f26df2d9c416fbddddd2330a778c6=ovomnuxtmt-ovnomnptu

33. Sohoni, Tracy W.P., "The Effect of Collateral Consequence Laws on State
Rates of Returns to Prison." dissertation, University of Maryland, 2013.
2012-IJ-CX-0006
Abstract: https://www.ncjrs.gov/app/publications/abstract.aspx?id=269669
Full text PDF: https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/grants/247569.pdf

34. Uggen, Christopher; Larson, Ryan; Shannon, Sarah, "6 Million Lost
Voters: State-Level Estimates of Felony Disenfranchisement, 2016." The
Sentencing Project, Oct 6, 2016.
Full text: http://www.sentencingproject.org/publications/6-million-lost-voters-state-level-estimates-felony-disenfranchisement-2016/
Full text PDF: http://www.sentencingproject.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/10/6-Million-Lost-Voters.pdf

35. Uggen, Christopher; Shannon, Sarah; Manza, Jeff, "State-Level Estimates
of Felon Disenfranchisement in the United States, 2010." The Sentencing
Project, Jul 2012.
Full text PDF: http://www.sentencingproject.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/01/State-Level-Estimates-of-Felon-Disenfranchisement-in-the-United-States-2010.pdf
